E11 - NECASIO, Paul Timothy R.
22 March 2021

WELCOME TO DECKED OUT!

INTRODUCTION

Decked Out is a dungeon-crawling game originally implemented in
Minecraft by a YouTuber named TangoTek. The game features the mechanics of
dungeon adventuring, deck building, treasure hunting, and trading. The goal of
the game is to complete a set of artifacts, which are sprinkled within the
dungeon. The player should follow a compass through the dungeon and throw it
in the marked location. A loot box containing artifacts, cards, coins, and other loot
will pop up. The player should go back to the entrance of the dungeon while
avoiding enemies that could kill the player. Points will be received after completing
sets of artifacts. Coins will be used to buy items and gears from the shops. Artifacts
can be traded for coins while cards can be traded for higher tier cards.

This Java implementation covers most of these features in an RPG style. There will be
some tweaks to the original game to further fit the RPG components.


THE DUNGEON

A dungeon will be generated every run. A key is needed to enter the dungeon. The player
will be placed in a grid of tiles with various elements. Tiles have different biomes
and different rooms. Tiles might also have closed sides. When a player hits a wall, 
a message will be shown. The player can move by entering directions such as up, down, 
left and right. Hostile entities will also be spawned in a random tile in the dungeon. 
When a hostile entity meets a player, a turn-based combat system will be shown. The player
can attack, defend, or run. When the player is dead, they will be immediately exit the
dungeon. Random loot barrels will also be sprinkled around the dungeon. Random soul flame
chambers will be around the dungeon. Punching them will increase the chances of receiving
higher tier cards when a dungeon is completed.

THE TREASURE

While in the dungeon, a compass will be shown which has directions to the treasure tile.
The player should follow this direction while avoiding hostile entities and obstacles.
When the player reaches the treasure tile, a message will be shown and a lootbox will be
given to the player. The player now needs to run back to the entrance while still avoiding
hostile entities and obstacles. When a dungeon is finished, the player has to choose from
3 random cards. More soul flamed punched, higher tier cards. After exiting the dungeon, 
the player should go to the shop to open the lootbox and received its loot.

THE SHOP

In the main screen, there is an option to visit the shop. The player can submit their lootbox
in there to receive its contents. The player can also buy dungeon keys, dungeon lootboxes,
foods, potions, armors, weapons, shields, etc. There is also an option to pray in the AFK
throne where there is a chance to receive a free dungeon key.

THE TRADING AREA

A trading area is also provided by the hall. In there you can trade 3 artifacts to coins, 
a complete set to points, 3 tier I cards to a random tier II card, and 3 tier II cards to a 
random tier III card.

THE PLAYER AND THE ITEMS

The player have several attributes such as health (HP), hunger, defense points (DP or DEF),
attack points (AP or ATK), armor slot, weapon slot, shield slot, food inventory, potion
inventory, misc inventory, card set, card deck, artifact board, and etc. Armor will
provide additional defense points and will reduce damage.  Weapons will increase attack
points and damage. Shields will provide an option to defend from hostile entities without
taking any damage. Food will provide hunger. Potion will provide various effects for the
player. Miscellaneous items will be used to trade with villagers for coins (unimplemented).
Cards will provide adjustments in the dungeon such as loot number and soul flames. Artifacts
are collectible items that belong to set. Completing a set will give the player points.
Artifacts can also be traded for coins.
